
John Sparrowhawk was a sporting man of the tribe of "Surethings." He was fond
of what has Cherry Hill description as a "cinch." He never let any lame, slow
trick get away. John Sparrowhawk's specialty was racing; and he always referred
to this diversion with horses as his "long suit." He kept several rather abrupt
animals himself, and whenever he found a man whose horse wasn't as sudden as
some horse he owned, John Sparrowhawk would lay plots for that man, and
ultimately race equines with him, and become master of such sums as the man
would bet. John Sparrowhawk wandered through life in his "surething" way and
amassed wealth. He was rich, and was wont to boast to very intimate friends:
"I never spent a dollar which I honestly earned." This gave John Sparrowhawk a
vast deal of vogue, and he was looked up to and revered by a circle which is
always impressed by the genius of one who can rob his fellow-worms, and do it
according to law.
It befell one day that the Brooklyn Jockey Club offered a purse for a running
race, but demanded five entries. In no time at all, three horses were entered.
Their names and capacities were well known to the sagacious John Sparrowhawk.
He had a horse that could beat them all.
"He would run by them like they was tied to a post!" remarked John Sparrowhawk,
in a chant of ungrammatical exultation.
It burst upon him that the time was ripe to pillage somebody. His latest
larceny was ten days old, and John Sparrowhawk oft quoted the Bowery poet where
he said:

"Count that day lost whose low, descending sun
Sees at thy hands no worthy sucker done."

And John Sparrowhawk did business that way. If he might only get another horse
entered, and then complete the quintet with his own, John Sparrowhawk would
possess "a snap." Which last may be defined as a condition of affairs much
famed for its excellence.
At this juncture John Sparrowhawk had the idea of his career. The idea made "a
great hit" with him. He had a friend who had a horse, which, while not so
swiftly elusive as "Tenbroeck" and "Spokane" in their palmy days, could defeat
such things as district messenger boys, Fifth avenue stages, and many other
enterprises which do not attain meteoric speed. John Sparrowhawk's horse could
beat it, he was sure. He would explain the situation to his friend, and cause
his snail of a horse to be entered. This would fill the race, and then John
Sparrowhawk's horse would win "hands down," and thereby empty everybody's
pockets in favour of John Sparrowhawk's, which was a very glutton of a pocket,
and never got enough.
John Sparrowhawk's friend was lying ill at the Hoffman. John Sparrowhawk went
into that hostelry and climbed the stairs, softly humming that optimistic
ballad, which begins: "There's a farmer born every second!"
The sick friend took little interest in the deadfall proposed by John
Sparrowhawk. He was suffering from a mass-meeting on the part of divers boils,
which had selected a trysting place on his person, where their influence would
be felt.
Locked, as it were, in conflict with his afflictions, John Sparrowhawk's friend
was indifferent to his horse. He cared not what traps were set with him.
John Sparrowhawk entered the friend's horse and paid the entrance money—$150.
Then he lavished $15 on a "jock" to ride him. The field was full, the
conditions of the purse complied with, and the race a "go." Of course, John
Sparrowhawk's horse would win; and, acting on it as the chance of his life,
John Sparrowhawk went craftily about wagering his dollars, even unto his bottom
coin; and all to the end that he deplete the "jays" about him and become
exceeding rich.
"I'm out for the stuff!" observed John Sparrow-hawk, and acted accordingly.
When the race started John Sparrowhawk had everything up but his eyes, his
ears, and other bric-à-brac of a personal sort, which would mean inconvenience
to be without a moment.
There could be no purpose other than a cruel one, so far as John Sparrowhawk is
concerned, to dwell on the details of this race. Suffice it that they started
and they finished, and the horse of the sick friend made a fool of the horse of
John Sparrowhawk. He beat him like rocking a baby, so said the sports, and
thereby dumped the unscrupulous yet sapient John Sparrow-hawk for every
splinter he possessed. It shook every particle of dust out of John Sparrowhawk.
He called to relate his woe to his sick friend. That suffering person's malady
had temporarily taken a recess from its labours, and for the nonce he was
resting easy.
"I know'd it, and had four thousand placed that way, John," observed the
invalid. "I win almost thirteen thousand on the trick. My horse could do that
skate of yours on three legs. I tumbled to it the moment you came in the other
day."
"Why didn't you put me on?" remonstrated John Sparrowhawk, almost in tears, as
he thought of the dray-load of money he had lost.
"Put you on!" repeated the Job of the Hoffman, scornfully; "not none! I wanted
to see how it would seem to let a 'surething' sharp like you open a game on a
harmless sufferer and 'go broke' on it. No, John; it will do you good. You
won't have so much money as the result of this, but you will be a heap more
erudite."

